.\" This file is part of FMS, an agent-based Financial Market Simulator
.\" FMS is (c) 2008,2009 Jean-Charles Bagneris. See LICENSE for redistribution
.\" information and usual disclaimer.
.\" Process with groff -man -Tascii fms.1
.\"
.TH FMS 1 "2008-12-08" "FMS Development Team" "Financial Market Simulator"
.SH NAME
fms \- a financial market simulator
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B startfms.py [options] [command] [
.I experiment-config-file
.B ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B fms
is an agent-based market simulator. The main program,
.B  fms.py
can read and validate an "experiment" config file, and/or
run it, outputting transactions data on 
.I stdout
or in a .csv file.
The experiment configuration file is described in experiment-conf.yml(5).
.SH OPTIONS
Options override
.I experiment-config-file
parameters values.
.IP "-h, --help"
Show help message and quit.
.IP "-L LEVEL, --loglevel LEVEL"
Set logging level to
.I LEVEL.
This overrides the -v option.
.IP "-v, --verbose"
Set logging level to 'info'.
Overrided by -L or --loglevel option.
.IP "--show-books, --show-limits"
Show best limits on each step.
.IP "--timer"
Show a day:time timer while experiment is running.
.IP "--unique_by_agent"
Orders in books are unique by agent : if the same agent places
another order, previous one is deleted. This is the default.
.IP "--no_unique_by_agent"
Agents may place multiple orders.
.IP "--csvdelimiter DELIMITER"
CSV files delimiter value.
.IP "--randomseed SEED"
Ramdom seed value.
.IP "--outputfilename OUTPUTFILE, -o OUTPUTFILE"
Set output filename. This overrides 
.I OUTPUTFILENAME
param in experiment config file.
.IP "--orderslogfile FILENAME, --ordersfile FILENAME"
Set orders log filename. This overrides 
.I ORDERSLOGFILE
param in experiment config file.
.IP "--repeat NUM"
Repeat experiment
.I NUM
times. 
.SH COMMANDS
.IP "check"
Checks validity of 
.I experiment-config-file
by trying to instanciate all classes : world, engines, markets and agents.
.IP "run"
Run experiment from
.I experiment-config-file
.SH SEE ALSO
experiment-conf.yml(5)
.SH BUGS
Probably many.
.SH AUTHOR
Jean-Charles Bagneris <jcb at bagneris dot net>

